they were not allowed to perform a
controversial play at their schools so
today sherwood middle school students
took their play about bullying to
portland news channel H Wayne heberle
was at today's performance we're on
Broadway so I keep telling the kids the
play higher ground has created
controversy in the sherwood school
district hey oh yeah man what's your
issue don't tell me you're 12 no not you
know here it focuses on middle school
bullying that was canceled by the
district because a few parents thought
it was too mature for these 6 7th and
8th graders other parents fought to keep
this play alive that I think that a lot
of parents kind of wish that their kids
would stay that young but they don't and
we have to prepare them we can't just
throw them out there to the wolves she's
not just beautiful the Portland Center
for the Performing Arts heard about the
situation and invited the kids to
perform here drama teacher Jenny Brown
wrote the play and believes strongly in
its message for kids to feel empowered
and to feel that they should advocate
for themselves and advocate for each
other I was saving social suicide but it
turns out I was digging man ready
Mitchell schwabl is the talented eighth
grader who plays the lead in the play a
kid who mistakenly gets labeled as gay
other characters are bullied for things
like being overweight or getting
straight A's the message is that yes
bullying does occur and yes bad things
do happen in middle schools but yes it
can be stopped that's really the message
of the play we're gonna stand together
and we're gonna do this as a team and
we're not gonna allow ourselves to be
bullied this is what it started won't
work forever though a message that has
made it from a small town to Broadway
was Wayne have early reporting and wings
as it turns out the kids were happy
about how things worked out their
message about bullying got out to a much
larger audience than it would have
before
but next is the play their principal
didn't want performed at school how
these local students found a different
stage this weekend school administrators
tried to change it while the students
held their ground today a controversial
middle school play went on in downtown
Portland k2's Susan Harding shows us the
drama that almost never made it to the
stage can I get you to make one note in
your script Jenny Brown wrote and
directed the play that couldn't be
performed in Sherwood middle school I
think that that the majority of kids
would benefit from seeing other kids
stand up to bullies these are the Mean
Girls characters who prey on kids
because of their race disabilities or
wait I believe this is pretty watered
down from what really happens at middle
school this play is so realistic and
it's just what really happens this is
just two men integrate with not one open
seat the lights finally go up then
lights in it was shattered in the blink
of an eye principals called the content
to mature because of scenes like this
where students spread rumors a boy is
gay dude you're sick since when have you
even complete and hold him down while
they apply me that's the way I see it
we're just gonna help you evolve into
what you really are a woman the
real-life drama began when principles
decided students needed to revise the
script instead they voted to take it off
campus they really felt strongly that
this place should be performed as it was
it contains raw language calling kids
cows freak some retards in a teacher a
Nazi we were also saying like it's wrong
to say that like there's a story in
there in a lesson and the so-called Mean
Girls vowed to take the message to heart
for all of us I think we're probably
gonna feel a little bit nicer to people
about in downtown Portland Susan Harding
KTOO news and that performance was
Friday and today and no more
performances are plans
just days before the show is to open
last month at the middle school the
principal told the kids either to have
it rewritten or cancel it after some
parents pull their kids out of the show
due to the controversial material the
sixth seventh and eighth graders voted
to cancel the show so the voice of a few
became the decision for many but the
kids I have to admire so much their
conviction and their passion the
students got an offer from the Portland
Center for the Performing Arts to do the
show here today it shows pretty
realistic not really actually they
there's a lot worse stuff going on the
school like drug use and everything some
of those who watch say it's important to
expose bullying you get at school yeah I
have to help this guy oh sure pop quiz
the show's creator is still reeling from
the unexpected controversy and the show
of support from so many yes I am
surprised I never in my wildest dreams
anticipated anything like this happening
I just wanted to put on a school play
the kids will now start working on the
next play Romeo and Juliet the drama
teacher is not sure if that one will be
as controversial as this one in downtown
Portland Lisa phallic coin new six
dozens of sherwood middle schoolers got
to take a bow in downtown Portland today
after staging a play that almost didn't
go on the drama called higher ground
wrapped up this afternoon at one of the
smaller theaters in the Portland Center
for Performing Arts when auditioning for
the play about bullying many students
knew they'd be taking on tough issues
but what they didn't expect was a
roadblock that would prevent them from
performing it on campus the principal
deem that some of the content was too
mature but some people leading the show
today disagreed and I think this was an
excellent play to letting the community
know that and let our kids to know that
they have to be good to one another and
there's nothing wrong about sinking
you said the students would have to
revise the play written by their drama
teacher but the group decided to keep it
intact and perform off-campus